## How to implement a simple smart contract on private chain
### write a smart contract in remix
remix is an online IDE that helps developers to write smart contracts in solidity. Visit this link https://remix.ethereum.org to access the IDE directly.  
```
pragma solidity ^0.4.16;
contract HelloWorld {
    uint256 counter = 5;   
    address owner = msg.sender;
    
    //client send add or substract execution to manipulate counter
    function add() public {
        counter++;
    }
    function substract() public {
        counter--;
    }
    
    //return the value of counter
    function getCounter() public constant returns (uint256) {
        return counter;
    }
    
    function kill() public {
      //destrucor to destroy the contract
        if(msg.sender == owner){
            selfdestruct(owner);
        }
    }
    
    function () public payable {
      //nothing in this function, this is just to enable the contract to receive ehter
      //payable means the function receives ehter
    }   
}
```
### deploy contract
Go to release github release page of Mist and download a tool according to the system you are using. Open the Mist to connect to the private chain you are using.  
Run command `mist --args --rpc {path to ipc file}` to run mist on the private chain just created.  
Click the tab "contract", import contract source code, select contract name and then click "deploy". The process of contract deployment is also a transaction in ethereum, so it should be faster when you set higher gas. There must be a miner mining to make deployment complete.  
### interact with deployed smart contract
In Mist tab "contract", select the contract just deployed. In the dropdown list next the contract to select a function to execute. Because there is a payable method in the contract, it is allowed to pay ether to the contract. After executing kill, all fund will be refuned to accounts.   
Basically, Mist is just a UI to run commands to make life easier. All executions including `add`, `substract` and `kill` are actually transactions. A trasation will be written into block chain so making a execution, in essence, is nothing different from sending ehter. All of executions can be completed by commands in shell.
