# Difference between the SDK version and runtime version:
## SDK:
#### Intro
SDK is just a tool to build a application, generate template and create a project in a sort of architecture. SDK has no libraries provided for development code, and it is just a CLI tool to do process like build, publish, restore, etc. SDK will be downloaded with visual studio but you need to install runtimes by yourself. When you create a new project or restore references in an existing project, visual studio actually call commands do it.  

#### How to check
`dotnet –version` is command to get SDK version.  
All installed SDK can be found in `"Program Files/dotnet/SDK"`.  

#### How to define
Specific version of SDK can be selected in global.json or *.sln in .Net Core. If there is no one selected, latest one will be used.  

#### tips:
SDK has to be compatible with visual studio version.  
For example: if you installed SDK in 1.1.0 and using Visual Studio 2015. It will not work because VS 2015 is not supported by SDK 1.1.0. In order to use VS2015, use SDK 1.0.0. In my test, project created based on SDK 1.1.0 is still using project.json to define runtime version.

## Runtime version:	
#### Intro
runtime version is the version of references used to build program.
Project will rely on depedencies in this version to build. (Whatever version SDK you are using, the prject is built on references of runtime version defined.)

#### How to check
Runtime vesion can be selected in project.json for .net framework *.csproj for .net core.
These dependencies(dlls) are saved in bin/debug ang bin/release.

#### Target is runtime version
When create a project, in visual studio, there is a drop down list to for target version. target version is to choose version of .Net framework version.  
Be attention, when create a .Net core project, this is useless. This drop down list is just for .Net framework version.
